#Automatic Face Mask and Temperature Detection System 
Automatic mask and temperature detection

This pandemic has pushed us to a situation where we have to take extreme precautionary measures to take care of ourselves and our loved ones. To not spread the disease/get contacted by it, it is advised to wear a face mask outdoors. It would be a lot easier in public places if there was an automatic system that would check people for face masks and body temperature. The Proposed Covid prevention method scans the face for face masks and their body temperature. We have built a CNN model that detects the presence of face masks in people from a webcam using Keras running in a TensorFlow background, OpenCV, and MobileNet V2 architecture. We have used MLX90614ESF Contactless Temperature Sensor to measure the body temperature at the entrance. The MLX90614ESF is connected to the Arduino and temperature is displayed in a 16*2 LCD display. A binary digit is sent to the Arduino via serial port using the package pyserial.‘0’ indicates that the person is not wearing a mask and binary digit  ‘1’ indicates he is wearing a mask. Upon inspection, if both conditions are satisfied (face mask: ON, Body Temperature < 100.4°C), the control system would open the gates, allowing the person to enter. We have used a servo motor which acts as a gate. The servo motor rotates by an angle of 90 degrees and then goes back to the original state. This method helps in the prevention of COVID19 to a great extent as wearing a mask and checking temperature constantly is mandatory.
